Before we dive into other units we didn't use so far,
let me show you an interesting combination of pixels and percentages because although we will talk about
responsive design in a separate module, the current behavior we can see right here, that the image gets
smaller and smaller,
this is nice,
as you can see the formatting is not perfect,
as I said we'll fix that in the corresponding module
but if we increase the size, we can see that our image gets bigger and bigger
and although we love our customers, I think that's a bit too big.
Therefore let's do our first steps towards a responsive design right now.
For that, let's quickly recap how this image or the size of this image is defined because the image is
inside this image container,
here we have the image, the image has a width of 100%.
It's 100% of its containing block which is this testimonial image container class right here
and this has a width of 65% of its containing block which is the testimonial class,
so the entire page width right here as we can see it. Now wouldn't it be great if we could limit the size of
the container because if the image has a width of 100% of our container,
well if the container wouldn't get bigger and bigger and bigger, then the image will also stay smaller.
We can do this as I said with the combination of pixels and percentages.
So let's go back to our code, specifically to the customer.css file, this one right here
and here we can see our image,
we just had a look at that and our image container
and this 65%, this width we applied, is fine,
I think it doesn't look bad, it fits the structure of the page but now let us add a second property,
the so-called max width property,
this one right here.
Now what's the idea behind that?
With the width right here, we have this percentage value,
this means the image increases and increases depending on the width of our device.
But if we now add a fixed value as a maximum width, we could restrict that width to this maximum we defined
and with that, our image wouldn't get bigger than we want it to be.
For example, if we inspect our image, we can see it has like 573 pixels now which is already quite big
but let's say we fix it to 580 pixels.
So if we do that right here and reload the page, you can see that nothing's changed
and if I decrease the size, it still gets smaller and smaller
but if I increase the size now, can you see it? Right here
as soon as we reach our limit that we defined, this 580 pixels, our image cannot get
any bigger
and that's of course a big improvement because imagine visiting our site on a really big device, a TV
screen for example.
I think it wouldn't be a good look if you would just see the entire screen filled with these two images,
therefore this max width property is a really easy way to make sure that you restrict the maximum size
of your images.
What you could also do is, you could for example change the max width to a let's say min width right here
and say that min width shouldn't be smaller than for example let's see, well let's say this size right
here,
so this is
350 pixels let's say,
so this is also possible of course. We can specify a min width also, like that, 250, 350 pixels like that.
So with that, we can see that our image doesn't get smaller than right here, what we intended,
as you can see it will stay the way it is, although that's not the perfect behavior yet
as you can see it but if we increase the size, it will increase and increase.
Therefore, we will stick to our max width for the moment because this worked better as I would say
and we'll come back to the mobile design, so we will ensure that the behavior we have for the smaller
screen also works perfectly in the responsive design module.
The important thing to keep in mind for you is that with the combination of a width property with a percentage
value and a max width defined with a fixed value, pixels in our case, you can make sure that your website
also is displayed in a nice way, on really big screens or with the min width value, you you can make sure that
certain elements are not displayed smaller than intended by you. We will dive deeper into these two properties
when we work with the responsive design. I just wanted to make sure that you have these concepts in mind
as we talk about units
but with that, we can now continue and finally leave the world of percentages and pixels and have a closer
look at fonts because our font size is not perfect yet
and if I look at our customers page for example, I can see a lot of pixels, right here for example.
Now for the fonts, we have better options than pixels, so let's have a look at rem and em in the next lecture.